+++
title = "D3.js Multiple Line Plot - Part 3"
categories = ["code", "d3", "programming", "website"]
date = "2015-06-27T22:48:45-04:00"
+++
Working version of the plot, download <a href="https://cdn.thebubbleindex.com/Docs/plot_working_07272015.zip">here</a>.

The data is now imported and loaded into memory. The next step is to attach each time-series to the DOM as an element. Before doing that, draw the initial axes.

Drawing the initial axes are easy with D3. Nothing too crazy, the y-axis has the text: "Relative Power." However, note that the y-axis has been scaled (<a href="{{< relref "D3.js Multiple Line Plot - Part 2.md" >}}">part 2</a>) based on all the time-series. If a single time-series is removed, the y-axis should be re-scaled and re-drawn. The entire plot will also have to be re-drawn. Removing and added lines will be the subject of later posts.
<pre><code>    svg.append("g")
        .attr("class", "x axis")
        .attr("transform", "translate(0," + height + ")")
        .call(xAxis);
    svg.append("g")
        .attr("class", "y axis")
        .attr("transform", "translate(" + width + " ,0)")
        .call(yAxis)
        .append("text")
        .attr("y", 6)
        .attr("dy", "-.71em")
        .style("text-anchor", "end")
        .text("Relative Power");
</code></pre>
Now the initial lines can be drawn on the plot. Since the initial state of the <code>svg</code> selection contains no child elements having the ".index" keyword, the D3 selection: <code>svg.selectAll(".index")</code> will return with an empty selection. Thus, the combination of the <code>.data(indices)</code> and <code>.enter().append("g")</code> D3 functions will append a "g" element for every map key in the <code>index</code> object. Each "g" element will have an "id" and "class" based on the individual time-series "name" attribute.

For each time-series object attached to the <code>index</code> selection, the <code>.append("path")</code> function will create a "path" element. This path will be drawn based on the <code>values</code> entry of the individual time-series map. The <code>function(d)</code> in the D3 callback of <code>.attr()</code> implicitly iterates over all key-pairs in the <code>index</code> selection and all key-pair in each time-series. The <code>line</code> and <code>color</code> functions were initialized in <a href="{{< relref "D3.js Multiple Line Plot - Part 1.md" >}}">part 1</a>.
<pre><code>    index = svg.selectAll(".index")
        .data(indices)
        .enter().append("g")
        .attr("id", function(d) {
            return "index" + d.name;
        })
        .attr("class", function(d) {
            return "index a" + d.name;
        });
    index.append("path")
        .attr("class", "line")
        .attr("d", function(d) {
            return line(d.values);
        })
        .style("stroke", function(d) {
            return color(d.name);
        });
</code></pre>
